We Begin this hour in the Middle East
where there's growing concern over food
shortages in Gaza with the United
Nations warning of looming famine people
living in isolated northern areas have
told the BBC that children are going
without food for days and animal feed is
being used to make bread with renewed
fighting and Aid convoys still regularly
blocked from reaching some areas half of
gaza's population is now in a food
emergency according to the UN it says
one in four households is facing a
catastrophic lack of food we start our
coverage with this special reports from
our Middle East correspondent Lucy
Williamson in the middle of a war a
battle for
[Music]
survival men sent to fight over cans of
beans and sacks of
flour the UN is warning that famine is
coming fast to gaza's Northern areas as
Aid arrives more
slowly this the first aid to arrive here
for 11 days brings crowds surging close
to Israeli
forces who fire to push them
[Music]
back in northern areas residents say
children aren't eating for days
in some places they're tapping water
from underground
pipes we're back to the Stone Age 30 40
50,000 years ago we dig water out filter
it from Sand and use it for
cooking the UN says Israel's Army
blocked more than half the aid
deliveries to Northern areas last month
and the child malnutrition has spiked
when it comes to the flower people are
actually using uh animal feed however
even the animal feed is starting to get
scars in the market and people are not
finding it when it comes to canned food
there is nothing left in the market
literally um what we had was actually
from the 6 to seven days of truce that
we had at the beginning of this war and
whatever Aid was allowed into Gaza and
the north of Gaza has actually been
consumed by now
the world food program told us that four
out of its last five Aid deliveries to
Northern Gaza were blocked by Israel
this shouldn't be a logistics crisis it
shouldn't be be a logistics problem and
we're in the Mediterranean there is
enough food to buy uh around this region
to feed 2.2 million people and prevent a
famine in the Gaza Strip um but the
issue is access the issue is being able
to get that food to people
Israel says it needs to control Aid to
prevent food and fuel reaching Hamas for
some Israeli protesters that's not
enough they've been blocking border
crossing points to try to force Hamas to
hand over Israeli hostages even with
talk of a hostage deal protesters are
demanding a Siege Aid is a Lifeline for
Gaza but here they say it's a Lifeline
for Hamas
[Music]
3 mil from the Israeli border European
planes airdrop supplies to the Jordanian
Hospital in Gaza
City Solutions here are getting more
extreme military planes over Gaza point
to its
Devastation even when they're carrying
Aid in place of bombs Lucy Williamson
BBC News Jerusalem